hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with beef goulash that's right I'm
using an old wolfgang puck recipe of
this amazing beef stew and while he's
not Hungarian he is Austrian and since
I've never been to that part of Europe
I'm gonna assume they're pretty much the
same thing
okay and while I really don't know if
that's true what I do know is if there
was a beef stew hall-of-fame this would
have an entire wing dedicated to it it's
that amazing so here's how you do it
first up we're going to cut up some beef
chuck do not buy stew meat all right cut
it yourself get the cheapest hunk of
beef chuck you can find and just cut it
up in like fork sized pieces and you see
all that connective tissue that's why
this is so delicious it's also why it
takes a couple hours to simmer but
totally worth it and of course the other
reason you want to cut your own is
because when you buy pre-cut from the
market those are the pieces they
literally can't sell any other way and
you're paying extra for the privilege so
just cut your own it's really easy once
you've cut it up we're going to go ahead
and season that with some salt and black
pepper I'm going to spread that out and
do it right on the board give that a
toss and then once that seasoned we're
going to sear that and brown that for a
few minutes on each side and a very hot
skillet a little bit of vegetable oil on
high heat I'm gonna do half at a time I
don't want to crowd it I want a nice
brown on there all right as they Brown
I'm just gonna toss them right into my
stew pot okay I'm gonna add in the
second batch and once all your beef
chunks are browned we're gonna go ahead
and saute our onions and we're going to
use the exact same pan why waste all
that deliciousness all right so put that
back on medium heat add in your onions
that I very roughly chop nice big pieces
all right this is a rustic stew and
rustic if you check the chef's to
English dictionary means do not spend a
lot of time on the precision cuts just
whack that thing up add to the pan with
a little drizzle of olive oil big pinch
of salt and we're going to cook that for
five or six minutes I don't need to cook
it all the way through this is going to
simmer for a couple hours but I do want
to get the edges nice and golden brown
that's going to add some beautiful
sweetness and color to the stew so I'm
gonna transfer our onions into the stew
pot and once again do not do not wash
that pan because we're going to toast
the spices in there so just set the pan
aside while you prep your spices one of
the signature spices in goulash is
caraway and there they are little
caraway seeds I'm going to throw a
couple teaspoons in a mortar
hustle and crush it up you could use a
spice grinder but it was just a little
bit so that's an easy way to do it I'm
gonna dump my ground caraway seeds into
our dry but still dirty pan along with
some paprika
hopefully it's Hungarian but if you have
to use Spanish paprika no problemo
I'm also going to toss in some black
pepper some dry marjoram some dry thyme
and some cayenne I'm gonna put the heat
on medium and I'm going to toast those
spices in the dry pan for about three or
four minutes but don't necessarily go by
time you want to keep stirring moving it
around the pan until you can just sort
of barely smell that caraway seed
toasting we certainly don't want to burn
these spices but we do want to wake them
up with that heat it really does make a
difference so after three or four
minutes at osteen I decided mine were
perfect I'm gonna deglaze with a cup of
chicken broth that's going to stop the
cooking process and of course release
all that amazing goodness from the
bottom of the pan from the meat and the
onions and of course these last
ingredients we're going to dump that
into the stew pots all right along with
some tomato paste some very finely
crushed garlic and 1 bay leaf that for
some reason I dipped into the tomato
paste first sometimes I do things for no
reason a little bit of salt and then
we're going to add the rest of our
chicken broth a little bit of sugar like
a teaspoon just to balance the acidity
from the tomato paste in this next
ingredient which is a little bit of
balsamic vinegar all right we're going
to give that a stir
I'm not sure why I'm using the
freakishly small wooden spoon if that
thing snapped I would have to quit
YouTube alright so I should be using a
bigger spoon but that's okay sometimes
you got to live dangerously and then
stop me if you've heard this before put
the heat on high bring it up to a simmer
and then back the heat down to low maybe
just over low to maintain a steady
simmer you don't want a rolling boil but
you do want a simmering pretty good and
then we're gonna simmer this for about
an hour and a half all right I don't
cover mine I like to watch it and smell
it if it looks like the liquid levels
getting a little low I'll add a splash
of stock or water no problem there and
after about an hour and a half it's
going to look something similar to this
I hope alright and then we're going to
evaluate we're going to take a fork
we're going to test the doneness of the
meat all right I want the fork to go in
the meat fairly easily yet I don't want
the meat totally falling apart so let me
check this and that was almost there I
figured I needed about ten fifteen more
minutes of cooking which was perfect
as I did want to reduce the liquid a
little more so I crank the heat up to
medium I cooked that for another 10 or
15 minutes which left me with this one
of the most gorgeous beef stews you will
ever see look at that color
and by the way promise me you're going
to taste this for salt and pepper all
right and I apologize for the steam let
me try another angle and yes that's even
worse but you get the idea the meats
tender the sauce is thickened and once
we're happy with that we can serve it up
on whatever I like buttered noodles
some people do rice potatoes this is
good on pretty much anything and of
course you got to clean up your drips
which is what I did there I'm gonna
finish with a spoon of sour cream and
because I had it and I use the dried
version in the stew I'm a top of some
fresh marjoram and that is done beef
goulash and by the way I'm sure we have
lots of confused Americans right now who
thought goulash was a hamburger and
elbow macaroni casserole that's not what
this is this is the real deal or at
least my version of the real deal
old-world comfort food at its finest
that soft succulent sticky beef that
rich aromatic paprika based sauce like I
said at the beginning one of the world's
great great beef stews so I really hope
you give that a try
head over to food which is calm for all
the ingredients and more info as usual
and as always enjoy